golden finches in Australia make their
nests in holes in trees
the disadvantage of doing that is that
it may be so gloomy within that it's
difficult to see where the chicks are
the solution vividly colored spots on
the side of the mouth and when
vibrations made by a parent as it enters
tell these still blind chicks that food
is on the way they quickly provide extra
guidance with gapes patterned as vividly
as this the parents have no doubt about
where to post their food parcels
these are zebra finches
and these extraordinary objects are
young fart elf inches what looked like
goggles are actually markers to indicate
the corners of the mouth
[Music]
these are the chicks of Australian
Rosella parents their parents started
incubating as soon as their first egg
was laid that therefore was the first to
hatch and its chick the first to be fed
so to begin with there's a difference in
size between the chicks but Rosella
parents are scrupulously fair and they
make quite sure that even the youngest
gets its proper share of food even so
after 10 days the eldest is still the
biggest but remarkably it sometimes
shares its food with the youngest and
the smallest they're beginning to lose
their down and proper feathers start
showing through an itchy business
apparently
three weeks later in spite of five days
difference in age between the oldest and
the youngest they're all the same size